## The Art of Story telling, History, Literature and Learning

Learning is a continuous process but maturity is slow. The handshaking between the two needs a bit of external staging. I
remember a lot of story telling by our primary and middle school teachers. Unfortunately, we did not understand its effectiveness
until it was too late. I believe most of our school teachers were themselves unaware of the fact that the story teling is anything
other than babysitting. Most parents also think that way. Story telling mostly left to grand parents who I believe do willingly
as they have no role in harnessing resources for a family after retirement. Panchatantra, Mahabharat and Ramyan were all time 
favourites with the children. Many writers have tried retelling of Ramayan from modern prospectives. However, I don't believe any of these
can connect to the imagination of children as the old Ramayan tales. It is a complete package which tells about respecting wisemen (rishis),
preserving flora and fauna (forest and animals) by destroying evils (poachers as asuras). I tried to narrate a couple of small stories
from Ramayan to my daughter when she was a toddler. I liberally used wireless communication, remote access, tele transmission, and laser
guided missiles in narrations. Though she liked the stories initially, but quickly lost interest. It may be partly due to my way of
story telling was boring or too prominence of modern gadgets made the story weaker.  R. K. Narayan's book on Ramayan mentions about the 
popularity the Ramayan tv serial. It created an interesting business model in entertainment. People in villages pooled money to watch 
sunday morning serial on rented TVs running with car batteries as electricity had not reached most villages in 1990s. There was even a 
strike of sanitation workers who demanded that TV serial should be sponsored by the govt. The power of story telling is critical to any 
tv show or movie entertainment. The Ramayan is not just popular in India, but in many parts of the World, such as Indonesia, and Turkey.
Personally, I prefer Mahabharata more than Ramayan. However, Mahabharata is quite complex with inter-play of too many plots. There are
too many local adaptations of Mahabharata which often creates confusion.    

History and story telling are closely related. History without a story becomes uninteresting, dull and devoid of learning. I remember
a history teacher in our school. He was not our a regular teacher for our class. He used to come as substitute teacher when the regular
teacher of our class was not available. We all were exited when he would amble liesurely into the class. He would tell stories about a 
fictional character called "Gobara" he himself created. Gobara literally means a person who tends to cows. Interestingly, his character 
was an ace detective. I do not know even today, why he thought detective stories would at all be interesting to middle school students. 
But he had perfected the art of story telling. He made it interesting with use of earthly phrases and sometime couplets or quotes from 
well known literature. Today, when I look back I feel like he was exposing the students to the philosophy of simple living, high thinking
along with the power of deductive reasonings. 

We had another excellent history teacher at high school. He used to read a lot, and his classes were a real treat for us. Again I think his
way of presentation without a chalk and board work was outstanding. He taught us dry topics as evolution of constitutional
monarchy in England, French revolution, American war of independence of world wars I and II with erudition rarely found among high school
teachers. I believe he did not think anything great about moghul reign in India or movement of Indian Independence but was really passionate
about Netaji Subhas Bose's Indian National Army's Manipur match. Of course, the reason about being excited about Subhas Bose had his 
early schooling at our school in Cuttack. His other favoirite topic was chanakya and the rule of myurya dynasty. I am not sure if he 
ever thought of writing a history text himself. He appeared to be hurt and divasted when all of us did not perform well in school leaving exams.
I believe the examiners were unable to comprehend the finer nuances of historical interpretations given by the students which
were influenced by our history teacher. We didn't regret the fact that we scored low marks because of his teachings. Most of us
were still indebted for his teachings. In fact, there was unanimous decision to honor him during a class reunion recently. 
Now I realize that the history syllabus for highschool texts were not only uimaginative but were too bland to instil any
learning of the past. I believe memorizing dates and things what the moghul kings did in terms of establish memorials are churlish way
of reperesenting history of a great nation.

Another serious problem in school education is about literature. Language is the building block of expression, presenttion and
communication. Though, the texts and eassys were good, we had horrible teachers. The emphasis was in rot learning. One of the 
literature teacher used to recite the poems from the book in a nasal singing tone. It was often an ordeal for us to sit through
his class. On the top of it, he often used to favor the students with influence parents. I am not sure if my others fellow 
students had similar feelings. However, most of our school mates did not mention much about him. May another reason to dislike
him also idiotic punishments a student may get if he expressed any displeasure about school or hostel within his ear shot. Literature
study should be reoriented to oriented it more towards learning communication and expression rather than just reciting of poems 
or reading essays. Precis and comprehensions are quite interesting. I remember an anectode of my inter-college days. We were
asked to write a precis of a text by an english lecturer in a tutorial class. We were asked to return back the answer in the next
tutorial. In next tutorial when the lecturer read through my answer she could not belive that I had written it myself. She was
furious that I was trying to convince her that I wrote it myself. I am not sure if general midset among the educationists is that
the subject experts know anything and everything. 


